Installation instruction (#20)
ezsystems/commerce-documentation: docs/getting_started/install_ez_commerce.md

# Install eZ Commerce

!!! note

>     Installation for production is only supported on Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Installation for the production purposes is only supported on Linux.
```

    To install eZ Commerce for development on macOS or Windows,
    see the instruction to [Install eZ Platform on macOS or Windows](https://doc.ezplatform.com/en/latest/community_resources/installing-on-mac-os-and-windows/).

> ## Prepare work environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prepare the work environment
```

To install eZ Commerce you need a stack with your operating system, MySQL and PHP.

You can install it by following your favorite tutorial, for example: [Install LAMP stack on Ubuntu](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-linux-apache-mysql-php-lamp-stack-ubuntu-18-04).

Additionally, you need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#debian-stable) for asset management.

[For production](#prepare-installation-for-production) you also need Apache or nginx as the HTTP server (Apache is used as an example below).

You also need `git` for version control.

> To use search in the front end, you need to have [Solr installed](#install-solr).

Reviewer: 1. Does commerce support other search engines, like elastic?
2. Would it look better if there was a simple bulleted list with installation prerequisites instead of separate sentences?

Author: Commerce does not support Elastic yet, AFAIK. will probably change it to bullet points after merging with the main installation guide.

Before getting started, make sure you review the [requirements](https://doc.ezplatform.com/en/latest/getting_started/requirements/) page to see the systems we support and use for testing.

## Get Composer

Install a recent stable version of Composer, the PHP command line dependency manager.

> Use the package manager for your Linux distribution. For example on Ubuntu:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the package manager for your Linux distribution. 
For example, on Ubuntu:
```

``` bash
apt-get install composer
```

> To verify you got a recent stable version of Composer, you can run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that you have the most recent stable version of Composer, you can run:
```

``` bash
composer -V
```

!!! tip "Install Composer locally"

    If you want to install Composer inside your project root directory only,
    run the following command in the terminal:

    ``` bash
    php -r "readfile('https://getcomposer.org/installer');" | php
    ```

>     After this you need to replace `composer` with `php -d memory_limit=-1 composer.phar` in all commands below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you do so, you must replace `composer` with `php -d memory_limit=-1 composer.phar` in all commands below.
```

## Set up authentication tokens

See [Set up authentication tokens](https://doc.ezplatform.com/en/latest/getting_started/install_ez_enterprise/#set-up-authentication-tokens)

> in eZ Platform installation to learn how to authenticate yourself for commercial packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to learn about authenticating yourself for commercial packages.
```

## Create project

> In order to install a new project using `composer create-project` to get latest version of eZ Commerce,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to install a new project with `composer create-project` to get the latest version of eZ Commerce,
```

> In order to install a new project using `composer create-project` to get latest version of eZ Commerce,

Author: ```suggestion
In order to install a new project using `composer create-project` to get the latest version of eZ Commerce,
```

> you'll need to tell Composer which token to use before the project folder is created in the first place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you must first inform the Composer, which token to use before the project folder is created.
```

This can be done in the following way:

``` bash
COMPOSER_AUTH='{"http-basic":{"updates.ez.no":{"username":"<installation-key>","password":"<token-password>"}}}' composer create-project --keep-vcs --repository=https://updates.ez.no/bul_com/ ezsystems/ezcommerce my-new-com-project
```

!!! tip "Usage of authentication token with `composer create-project`"

    If you have several projects set up on your machine,
    they should all use different tokens set in `auth.json` file in project directory.

!!! note "Moving from trial"

>     If you started with a trial installation, you should [adjust the channel(s)](#edit-composerjson) you use in order to get software under [BUL license instead of a TTL license](https://ibexa.co/About-our-Software/Licenses-and-agreements/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you started with a trial installation, you must [adjust the channel(s)](#edit-composerjson) you use in order to get software under [BUL license instead of a TTL license](https://ibexa.co/About-our-Software/Licenses-and-agreements/).
```

> ## Edit composer.json

Reviewer: If this paragraph relates to the note above, it would be a good idea to turn a note into a separate section "Changing the licensing scheme", with an introductory pargraph and steps needed to switch to the commercial license.

Edit `composer.json` in your project root and change the URL defined in the `repositories` section to `https://updates.ez.no/bul_com/`.
Once that is done, you can execute `composer update` to get packages with the correct license.

## Change installation parameters

At this point you can configure your database via the `DATABASE_URL` in the `.env` file:
`DATABASE_URL=mysql://user:password@host:port/name`.

Choose a [secret](http://symfony.com/doc/5.0/reference/configuration/framework.html#secret)
and provide it in the `APP_SECRET` parameter in `.env`.
It should be a random string, made up of up to 32 characters, numbers, and symbols.
This is used by Symfony when generating [CSRF tokens](https://symfony.com/doc/5.0/security/csrf.html),
[encrypting cookies](http://symfony.com/doc/5.0/cookbook/security/remember_me.html),
and for creating signed URIs when using [ESI (Edge Side Includes)](https://symfony.com/doc/5.0/http_cache/esi.html).

> Alternatively, you can also change individual installation parameters in `.env`.

Reviewer: "Alternatively" to "also" what?
Would it be:
"You can also use the `.env` file to set a number of individual installtion parameters, listed below."

!!! tip

>     It is recommended to store the database credentials in your `.env.local` file and not commit it to the Version Control System.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Do not store the database credentials in your `.env.local` file, nor commit them to the Version Control System.
```

The configuration requires providing the following parameters:

- `DATABASE_USER`
- `DATABASE_PASSWORD`
- `DATABASE_NAME`
- `DATABASE_HOST`
- `DATABASE_PORT`
- `DATABASE_PLATFORM` —  prefix for distinguishing the database you are connecting to (e.g. `mysql` or `pgsql`)
- `DATABASE_DRIVER` — driver used by Doctrine to connect to the database (e.g. `pdo_mysql` or `pdo_pgsql`)

> - `DATABASE_VERSION` - set to your version if it is different than the default

Reviewer: Do you need the "if different..." part?
Other places in the documentation say:
"- database server version (for a MariaDB database, prefix the value with mariadb-)"

> - `DATABASE_VERSION` - set to your version if it is different than the default

Author: ```suggestion
- `DATABASE_VERSION` - database server version (for a MariaDB database, prefix the value with `mariadb-`)
```
as per the latest change to main installation guide

!!! note "JMS payment secret"
    
    To provide the `JMS_PAYMENT_SECRET` secret for the payment system, run `./vendor/defuse/php-encryption/bin/generate-defuse-key`
    and use the generated secret. 

## Install and configure Solr

> eZ Commerce requires Solr as search engine. To install it, run the included script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eZ Commerce requires Solr as a search engine. To install it, run the included script:
```

``` bash
bash ./install-solr.sh
```

> In the `.env` file configure the following parameters to your Solr values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the following parameters in the `.env` file:
```

- `SISO_SEARCH_SOLR_HOST`
- `SISO_SEARCH_SOLR_PORT`
- `SISO_SEARCH_SOLR_CORE`

> Also in `.env` set Solr as the search engine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also in the `.env` file, set Solr as the search engine:
```

```
SEARCH_ENGINE=solr
```

> ## Create database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a database
```

!!! tip

>     You can omit this step. If you do not create a database now, it will be created automatically in the next step.

Reviewer: If this step is obsolete, because the DB is created automatically anyway, can we simply get rid of it? The less ambiguity, the better. Also, the next sentence is redundant, the readers have just set the parameters two paragraphs above.

To manually create a database, ensure that you [changed the installation parameters](#change-installation-parameters), then run the following Symfony command:

``` bash
php ./bin/console doctrine:database:create
```

## Install eZ Platform

Install eZ Platform with:

``` bash
composer ezplatform-install
```

This command will also create a database, if you had not created it earlier.

> Before executing it make sure that the database user has sufficient permissions.

Reviewer: How do I check it? Can you link to a paragraph that explains this?

Also, if we removed the preceding step, we could easily remove the "if you had not created it earlier" loop.

If Composer asks for your token, you must log in to your GitHub account and generate a new token
(edit your profile, go to Developer settings > Personal access tokens and Generate new token with default settings).

> This operation is performed only once when you install eZ Commerce for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation is performed only once, when you install eZ Commerce for the first time.
```

> !!! tip "Enabling Link manager"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! tip "Enabling the Link manager"
```

>     To make use of [Link Manager](../guide/url_management.md), you need to [set up cron](../guide/url_management.md#enable-automatic-url-validation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To make use of the [Link Manager](../guide/url_management.md), you must [set up cron](../guide/url_management.md#enable-automatic-url-validation).
```

> ## Prepare installation for production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prepare an installation for production
```

To use eZ Commerce with an HTTP server, you need to [set up directory permissions](#set-up-permissions) and [prepare a virtual host](#set-up-virtual-host).

### Set up permissions

> For development needs, the web user can be made the owner of all your files (for example with the `www-data` web user):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For development needs, the web server user can be the owner of all your files (for example the `www-data` web user):
```

``` bash
chown -R www-data:www-data <your installation directory>
```

> Directories `var` and `public/var` need to be writable by CLI and web server user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directories `var` and `public/var` need to be writable by CLI and the web server user.
```

Future files and directories created by these two users will need to inherit those permissions.

!!! caution

>     For security reasons, in production web server should not have write access to other directories than `var`. Skip the step above and follow the link below for production needs instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For security reasons, in production, the web server should not have write access to other directories than `var`. Skip the step above and follow the link below for production needs instead.
```

>     You must also make sure that the web server cannot interpret files in the `var` directory through PHP. To do so, follow the instructions on [setting up a virtual host below](#set-up-virtual-host).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You must also make sure that the web server cannot interpret files in the `var` directory through PHP. 
    To do so, follow the instructions on [setting up a virtual host below](#set-up-virtual-host).
```

To set up permissions for production, it is recommended to use an ACL (Access Control List).
See [Setting up or Fixing File Permissions](http://symfony.com/doc/5.0/setup/file_permissions.html) in Symfony documentation
for information on how to do it on different systems.

> ### Set up virtual host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up a virtual host
```

#### Option A: Scripted configuration

Use the included shell script: `/<your installation directory>/bin/vhost.sh` to generate a ready to use `.conf` file.
Check out the source of `vhost.sh` to see the options provided.

#### Option B: Manual configuration

Copy `/<your installation directory>/doc/apache2/vhost.template` to `/etc/apache2/sites-available` as a `.conf` file.

> Modify it to fit your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the file to fit your project.
```

Specify `/<your installation directory>/public` as the `DocumentRoot` and `Directory`.
Uncomment the line that starts with `#if [SYMFONY_ENV]` and set the value to `prod` or `dev`,

> depending on the environment you want:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
depending on the environment that you are configuring:
```

```
SetEnvIf Request_URI ".*" SYMFONY_ENV=prod
```

> #### Enable virtual host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Enable the virtual host
```

When the virtual host file is ready, enable the virtual host and disable the default:

``` bash
a2ensite ezplatform
a2dissite 000-default.conf
```

> Finally, restart the Apache server. The command may vary depending on your Linux distribution. For example of Ubuntu use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, restart the Apache server. 
The command may vary depending on your Linux distribution. 
For example, on Ubuntu use:
```

``` bash
service apache2 restart
```

Open your project in the browser and you should see the welcome page.

!!! tip "eZ Launchpad for quick deployment"

>     If you want to get your eZ Commerce installation up and running quickly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To get your eZ Commerce installation up and running quickly,
```

>     you can use Docker-based [eZ Launchpad](https://ezsystems.github.io/launchpad/), supported by the eZ Community,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use the Docker-based [eZ Launchpad](https://ezsystems.github.io/launchpad/), which takes care of the whole setup for you.

>     which takes care of the whole setup for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    eZ Launchpad is supported by the eZ Community.
```

## Edit composer.json

Edit `composer.json` in your project root and change the URL defined in the `repositories` section to `https://updates.ez.no/bul_com/`.
Once that is done, you can execute `composer update` to get packages with the correct license.

## Change installation parameters

At this point you can configure your database via the `DATABASE_URL` in the `.env` file:
`DATABASE_URL=mysql://user:password@host:port/name`.

Choose a [secret](http://symfony.com/doc/5.0/reference/configuration/framework.html#secret)
and provide it in the `APP_SECRET` parameter in `.env`.
It should be a random string, made up of up to 32 characters, numbers, and symbols.
This is used by Symfony when generating [CSRF tokens](https://symfony.com/doc/5.0/security/csrf.html),
[encrypting cookies](http://symfony.com/doc/5.0/cookbook/security/remember_me.html),
and for creating signed URIs when using [ESI (Edge Side Includes)](https://symfony.com/doc/5.0/http_cache/esi.html).

> Alternatively, you can also change individual installation parameters in `.env`.

Author: ```suggestion
Instead of setting `DATABASE_URL`, you can change individual installation parameters in `.env`.
```
